Streaming analytics is a branch of data analytics that deals with the processing and analysis of continuous flowing data. The concept of real time data analysis is relatively new but a rapidly growing field in the industry. In the past, there wasn’t a demand to analyze data in real time and alternate analytics methods like batch processing where data was stored in storage centres and then sent out to be processed in batches was enough to keep up with the market’s demand. However, with the rise of the internet and it being integrated with nearly every facet of our lives the demand for the vast amount data to be processed in real time or with very low latency has sky rocketed. Streaming analytics which also known as Event Stream Processing allows the continuous processing and analysis of data as it is generated allowing companies to gain insight into their operations and make the necessary changes in order to optimise their output. It draws upon data from various sources like sensors, social media feeds, transactional systems, log files, IoT devices and many more. The organization can then apply their custom queries also known as event streams to the data being streamed when a particular event is triggered, like a financial transaction, a security score etc. It allows the organization take calculated decisions by detecting upcoming trends, opportunities, and risks. It is especially useful in use cases like fraud detection, real time user behaviour analysis and supply chain optimization. 
